## First-class functions

In JavaScript, Functions are first-class functions. This means that functions 
can be used as another elements, such as numbers, strings, objects, arrays, etc.
JavaScript functions can:

1. Be stored in variables
2. Be returnned from a function
3. Be passed as arguments into another function

Saying that functions are first-class functions, is the same as saying that
functions are first-class objects, wich in fact, they truly are.
The main difference between a function and an object is that we can call a func-
tion using `()`, and objects can not be called.
We also can retrieve a function property by using the object dot notation, to call
functions properties as we do on objects.

```js
function average() {
    return (n1, n2, n3) / 2;
}
//undefined

average.length; // 3

average.name // average
```

**Functions returning functions**

Functions always return _one_ value. Any value. Whether the value is explicitly specified in the `return` statement, or it is `undefined`.
Since we know that functions are first-class functions, we can treat a functions as a value and return it from another function. A function that returns another functions ae known as a **higher-order function**.

**Ex. 1**

```js
function message() {
    alert('Message 1');

   return function() {
       alert('Message 2')
   };
}

var innerFunction = message();
```

If `message()` is invoked, we can only see `Message 1`, because only that function was invoked, and then  the anonymous function scope corresponding to the `Message 2` as a returned value, since none of its code is executed.
To execute the inner function, we can assign it to a variable:
```js
var innerFunction = message();

//Alerts 'Message 2'
```

Likewise, the function can be invoked immediately without being stored in a variable;

```js
message()();

//Alerts 'Message 1', then alerts 'Message 2'.
```

**Ex. 2**

```js
function higherOrderFunction() {
    return function() {
        return 25;
    };
}

var num = higherOrderFunction();
console.log(num());

//25
```

### Further research

[First-class Functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/First-class_Function)

### Fonts
[Udacity - Object-Oriented JavaScript](https://www.udacity.com/course/object-oriented-javascript--ud711)