## Closures

The process of a function retaining access to its scope, even when it is invoked outside the location where it was declared is called a closure. It is a combination of a function and its lexical environment (basically the scope of the function). A closure can capture any number of parameters and variables that it needs. Every functions has its own scope as it has its own closure. What makes closures só powerful, is that a function can be returned from another function; a function can be invoked outside of the scope that was declared, and even though, still have access to the scope it was declared in because of closure.

Let's see this example:

```JavaScript
function close(number) {
    return function() {
        return number;
    }
}

const returnedNumber = close(5);

console.log(returnedNumber());
// 5
```

### How JavaScript creates closure

Every funtion has closure because every time we create a function, a closure is created for that function. This is because "_functions close over ate least one other context along the scope chain: the global scope_". However closures become more powerful when we work with nested functions.

Nested functions has access to outer variables from its parents, closing over _(i.e. capturing)_ them without the need to pass them as arguments to its child. These variables are called **free variables**.

As we saw in the code above, the child function has a reference to its parent function `close()`. This reference is `number`. If this reference is accessible to the child, the scope persists. Otherwise we'll see an reference error.

```JavaScript
const hello = 'Hello!'; //global var. All functions can access

function greet() {
  const lang = 'javascript';

  function message() {
    console.log(`${hello}! I'm learning ${lang}`);
  }

  return message(); // return the the message
}

greet(); //invoke the function
```
_**Note**_: If we just had returned `message` without invoking it, then we would have the scope printed, instead the message.

### Private State 🔐

A function might have a private state, mutable or not mutable. It's basically when this function can't be accessed externally because it closes over an outer variable, as we see bellow:

```JavaScript
function counter() {
  var count = 0;

  return function() {
    count += 1;
    return count;
  }
};

var result  = counter();
result();
// 1
// 2
```

The data is retained on each incrementing of `count`. But if we try to access the count variable?

```JavaScript
result.count; // undefined
```

Than the value _undefined_ is returned. This is because the `count` variable is accessible only inside of its lexical environment _(i.e. scope)_, and there is no way of any method outside the closure have access to the `count` state. This is pretty useful if we want to guarantee that any user won't accidentally change the value of this variable.

We don't have direct access to the local identifier count, but we still have the value of count printed because a global object `result` was defined to pass the return of the function `counter()` to it and then store the state of the identifier `count`, at that moment, in that variable.

### Garbage Collection 🗑

A given function does not end when it is returned. Instead, JavaScript keeps tracking of referenced variables and prevents them to automatically be added to the _garbage collection_. In the _counter_ example above, the nested function inside `counter()` are using its parents variable `count` to manage its data and return a value. So, it won't be garbage collected. But if the nested function in `counter()` function didn't exist, the variable `count` would have no use and then, added to the garbage collection to be destroyed at some later point to free up memory space.

___

### Further Research

* [Closures](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Closures "MDN")
* [Memory Management](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Memory_Management "MDN")