## Immediately-Invoked Function Expressions

First, we have to keep in mind two things: What is _function declaration_ and what is _function expression_?

A **function declaration** immediately defines a function without a variable to assign its value, and doesn't return a value as well.

```JavaScript
function declaration() {
    return 'Hello!';
};
```

A **function expression** does return a value, and can be an anonymous function or named function. They are commonly assigned to a variable.

```JavaScript
var expression = function() {
    return 'This is an anonymous function expression';
};

var named = function expression() {
    return 'This is a named function expression';
};
```

So, an immediately-invoked function expression _(i.e. IIFE)_ refers to a function that is invoked right after it is defined. We can easily turn a funtion declaration into a function expression by wrapping it inside parenthesis, and append parenthesis right after to invoke the function.

```JavaScript
(function greet() {
    return 'Hello!';
}());

// Hello!
```

If it wasn't that way we would have to invoke the function after its declaration, for a function declaration, and by the variable name, for function expression.

💡 _Keep in mind that a function expression can also be an anonymous function._

### Passing arguments into IIFE

The second pair of parenthesis _executes_ the function, and also _passes_ the arguments inside of it to the function parameters, as seen bellow:

```JavaScript
(function (language) {
    return `This is a study about ${language}`
}('JavaScript'));

// This is a study about JavaScript
```

### Private Scope using IIFE's

One of the main uses for IIFE's is to create private scope _(i.e. private state)_. We can leverage closures immediately invoking inside an IIFE.

```JavaScript
const myFunction = (
    function(){
        const hello = 'This is an example of using closure within IIFE';
        return function() {
            console.log(hello);
        }
    }
());

// This is an example of using closure within IIFE
``` 

💡 **Another way to write IIFE's:**

```JavaScript
(function() {
    return someValue;
})(); // parenthesis out the expression.
```

But if we look at the second parenthesis, it doesn't seem to be part of the function because it is outside the hole function expression.

Douglas Crockford, in one of his lectures, said: _"What's important is the hole invocation. Everything between the parenthesis should be treated as a unit, which is the function being invoked"_. This really seems to make sense, since it would help readers to understand what they're seeing is an expression. But, all in all, it is more a personal choice to write in a way or another. The JavaScript engine will parse them both as a function expression.

### Event handler with IIFE and private scope

Let's say we want to create a button that keeps track of how many clicks the button was clicked. The question is: how to maintain this data? By enclosing data in an event handler. This might prevent the pollution of the code with more variables and name collisions. Since we want to store the `count` data safely, we can leverage _closure_ to create a private state for that variable, as in the example bellow:

```JavaScript
const button = document.getElementById('btn');

button.addEventListener('click', function() {
    let count = 0;

    return function() {
        count += 1;
        alert(`count x ${count}`);

        if (count === 2) {
        alert('Count reseted');
        count = 0;
        }
    }
}());
```

> 💡 Typically, _var_ is used to declare global variables, but the use of _const_ to define `button` as a global variable is because it must be immutable. A _const_ can't have its values reassigned. And also, this is why was used _let_ to define `count` instead of const. Otherwise, would always have the same value as 0.

### Why use IIFE's?

* It creates prive scopes, preventing methods and variables from being accessed
  
  * They still accessible publicly, but maintain privacy over it data (i.e. variables and methods)

* Execute some code once, without the need to create any global variables

Use IIFE is good because it doesn't pollute the global space and reduce the chance of collision with duplicate variable name.

___

### Further research

* [An Introduction to IIFEs](http://adripofjavascript.com/blog/drips/an-introduction-to-iffes-immediately-invoked-function-expressions.html) on a Drip of Javascript

* [Immediately-Invoked Function Expression (IIFE)](http://benalman.com/news/2010/11/immediately-invoked-function-expression/) by Ben Alman

* [Handling Events](https://eloquentjavascript.net/15_event.html) on Eloquent JavaScript