## The `this` Keyword

The value of this is connected with functions and objects. When a functions is called, the value of this is set to an specific object, whether this is a created object from a constructor function or object notation, a method invoked inside an object or even a regular function call.

Let's take a closer look on what's happening in the following code bellow:

```JavaScript
function Clock() {
    this.hours = 10;
    this.minutes = 16;
    this.work = function() {
        console.log(`Tick! Tack! It's ${this.hours} hours and ${this.minutes} minutes.`)
    }
    this.rememberHour = function() {
        this.work();
    }
};

var clock = new Clock();

clock.work();
clock.rememberHour();

// Tick! Tack! It's 10 hours and 16 minutes.
// Tick! Tack! It's 10 hours and 16 minutes.
```

When invoking a constructor function with the `new` operator, `this` gets the value of the newly-created object (i.e. all its properties, values and methods). So, the `this` keyword _refers to the object itself_, and we can access the object's properties. then, when the method `work()` is invoked, what it really means is: _get the value of the property key `hours` of `this` object, and the same for `minutes` key_.

>⚠ Note that `this` **is an object that is part of the global window environment provided by the browser**, and is not always assigned to the object where it is defined. The value of this is not assigned to anything until an object calls a method where it is used. Then, it will assume that value at that moment.

⚠ If we wrote `work()` instead `this.work()` in `rememberHour()` the function would have look for a local variable called `work`, instead the method `work()` defined in _this_ object. If not found, it would continue to look up until reach the global environment. Since work is not defined, it will return an Uncaught ReferenceError: work is not defined.

The `this` keyword can be assigned in those three different ways as shown bellow:

|Call Style     |`new`       |method       |function     |
|---------------|------------|-------------|-------------|
|value of `this`|{new object}|object itself|global object|
|Example        |new Clock() |clock.work() |myFun()      |

There is a fourth way to call functions that allows us to set the value of `this` by ourselves.

___

Further research

* [this](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this) at MDN