## Setting our own this

JavaScript offer a few more ways to invoke functions, in which we can set our own value of _this_. These are: `call()`, `bind()`, `apply()`.

### call()

It's a method directly invoked onto a function that get a single value that is set as our `this`, and the arguments we want to pass to the function.

```JavaScript
function multiply(x, y) {
    return x * y;
}

multiply.call(window, 5, 4);
// 20
```

The first value inside the parenthesis - in this case, window - is the value we want to define for `this`.

⚠ Outside of [strict mode], both ways (i.e. regular function or `call()` method) of invoking `multiply()` above are equivalent.

The benefit of using `call()` method is that it allows us to "borrow" a method from one object and call it for another object, without define any new method.

```JavaScript
function Collection() {
    this.gender = 'science';
    this.describe = function() {
        console.log(`This is a collection of ${this.gender} books.`);
    }
};

var collection = new Collection();

collection.describe();

// This is a collection of Science books.
```

Object for which we want to call the method:

```JavaScript
function Book() {
    this.gender = 'romance';
};

var book = new Book();

collection.describe.call(book);
```

See that we don't need to create a new method to describe the second object. When we pass the object's name as argument to the method `call()`, we are assigning `book` to `this`.

### apply()

Just like `call()` method, `apply()` also is called on a function to associate a value of `this`. However, this method allow to pass arguments in an array instead one by one.

See the example bellow:

```JavaScript
var food = {
    name: 'pizza'
}

function flavor(flavor, x, y) {
    return `Here is your ${flavor} ${this.name}. It costs ${x * y}`;
}

flavor.call(food, 'pepperoni', 4, 5);

// Here is your pepperoni pizza. It costs 20

flavor.apply(food, ['pepperoni', 4, 5]);

// Here is your pepperoni pizza. It costs 20
```

Where **flavor**, **x** and **y** are arguments passed to a given function that uses `apply()`, and the object that binds the value of `this`, now is `food`. But could be `window`, or any other we defined.

### Choosing one method over other

Apparently both methods perform the same operations and invoke the function in the scope of the first argument passed to it. But, how we choose one or another?

`call()` is often used when we have a limited numbers of argument and we know how many arguments we the function will take.

`apply()` is used when we don't know exactly the number of arguments. Since it is an array, ir can take as many arguments as we pass, and unpack it in the function parameters.

⚠ The unpacking comes with a minor performance cost.

### Callbacks and `this`

When we use _callback functions_ we might have some issues, as in the code bellow.

```JavaScript
function invokeTwice(cb) {
   cb();
   cb();
}

const dog = {
  age: 5,
  growOneYear: function () {
    this.age += 1;
  }
};

dog.growOneYear();
// (this works as expected)

dog.age;
// 6

invokeTwice(dog.growOneYear);
// undefined

dog.age;
// 6
```

When we pass `dog.growOneYear` to `invokeTwice` is expected that it works, since it is passed as an argument, and in the scope of the function `invokeTwice` it is invoked as  a _regular function_. 

It is exactly the **problem**: when _regular functions_ are invoked, the value of this is assigned to the global `window`, and we lost the reference to the object `dog`. Now, `this` is assigned to the object window instead dog. To solve this problem, we can create an **anonymous closure** as a parameter in `invokeTwice` to close over the `dog` object.

```JavaScript
function invokeTwice(function() {
    dog.growOneYear();
});

dog.age;

// 8
```

But why not just pass `dog.growOneYear()` as a parameter? Because when we pass it in this way, we ask to assign this method to `cb()`, but we will have an error saying that `cb()` is not a function.


### bind()

`bind()`is similar to `call()` and `apply()`. it allow us to directly define the value of `this`. But unlike these two methods that invoke the function right away, `bind()` _returns a new function_ that, when invoked, has `this` set to the value we give it. Let's see!

```JavaScript
const growing = dog.growOneYear.bind(dog);

invokeTwice(growing);

dog.age;

// 7
```

In this case we have to create a variable called `growing`, and assign the function created by `bind()` to it. Now, `growing` is a _function bound to growOneYear_, that is the method of the object `dog`. Lastly we pass it as argument to `invokeTwice`.

___

### Further research

* Kyle Simpson's [You Don't Know JS](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/this%20&%20object%20prototypes/README.md#you-dont-know-js-this--object-prototypes)

* [call()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function/call) on MDN

* [apply()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function/apply) on MDN

* [bind()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function/bind) on MDN

[strict mode]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Strict_mode "Strict mode on MDN"